# The chaos game 🎲✨

This is a personal project developed in 2024.

## Description of the project

Originally, the chaos game referred to a method of creating a **fractal**, using a polygon and an initial point selected at random inside it. The fractal is obtained by iteratively creating a sequence of points, starting with the initial random point. Each point in the sequence is a given fraction of the distance between the previous point and a random vertex of the polygon. Moreover, we can define some specific constraints inside the iterations. For example, we can implement the fact that it is not possible to select a vertex twice in a row. Then, we get a totally different fractal. 

In this repository, I implement the chaos game in **Python** so that we can try with different...
- Numbers of vertices $n$ of the polygon.
- Number of iterations *n_iter*. The higher *n_iter* is, the better we can see the fractal. 
- Steps (the fraction of the distance between the previous point and the current one).
- Constraints.

The concept of chaos game is more general than that. We can obtain many different fractals with various shapes. For instance, it is possible to get a fern (called **Barnsley fern**). I implemented it. 
I also made an animation with FFMpegWriter from matplotlib.animation. Then, we can observe each point appearing one by one and the fern emerging.

Finally, with FFMpegWriter and CapCut (an editing software), I made a video that shows how the chaos game works. The video is published on my YouTube channel [here](https://www.youtube.com/shorts/WTsYXXna7w0).

## Content of the repository

This repo contains:

### 1 – A *chaos_game.ipynb* Jupyter Notebook 🎲

This is the implementation of the chaos game. At the end of the Notebook, 9 fractals are plotted. We can manually set different combinations of parameters ($n$, step, n_iter, constraint) to get different results.

### 2 – A *fractals_png* file ✨

This is the figure generated by the *chaos_game.ipynb* Notebook.

### 3 –  A *barnsley_fern.ipynb* Jupyter Notebook 🌿

In this Notebook, we can see how to get the Barnsley fern.  

### 4 –  A *fern_animation.ipynb* Jupyter Notebook 🌿▶️

This Notebook creates and locally saves an animation of the Barnsley fern, in MP4 format.   

## 📌 Note

⚠️ In order to run *fern_animation.ipynb*, you'll need to install [FFMpeg](https://www.ffmpeg.org/download.html).

